This is the text of the PDF page 
 MEDICATION GUIDE
ABILIFY® (a BIL ĭ fī) ABILIFY® (a BIL ĭ fī) ABILIFY® (a BIL ĭ fī)
ABILIFY® (a BIL ĭ fī)
(aripiprazole) (aripiprazole) (aripiprazole) (aripiprazole)
Tablets Orally Disintegrating Tablets Oral Solution Injection, for intramuscular use

What is the most important information I should know about ABILIFY?
(For other side effects, also see “What are the possible side effects of ABILIFY?”)
Serious side effects may happen when you take ABILIFY, including:

•

•

Increased risk of death in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis: Medicines like ABILIFY can raise
the risk of death in elderly people who have lost touch with reality (psychosis) due to confusion and memory loss
(dementia). ABILIFY is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis.

Risk of suicidal thoughts or actions: Antidepressant medicines, depression and other serious mental illnesses,
and suicidal thoughts or actions:
1. Antidepressant medicines may increase suicidal thoughts or actions in some children, teenagers, and
young adults within the first few months of treatment.
2. Depression and other serious mental illnesses are the most important causes of suicidal thoughts and
actions. Some people may have a particularly high risk of having suicidal thoughts or actions. These
include people who have (or have a family history of) bipolar illness (also called manic-depressive illness) or
suicidal thoughts or actions.
3. How can I watch for and try to prevent suicidal thoughts and actions in myself or a family member?

•

•

Pay close attention to any changes, especially sudden changes, in mood, behaviors, thoughts, or feelings.
This is very important when an antidepressant medicine is started or when the dose is changed.

Call the healthcare provider right away to report new or sudden changes in mood, behavior, thoughts, or
feelings.

• Keep all follow-up visits with the healthcare provider as scheduled. Call the healthcare provider between visits
as needed, especially if you have concerns about symptoms.
Call a healthcare provider right away if you or your family member has any of the following symptoms, especially
if they are new, worse, or worry you:

• thoughts about suicide or dying 
• attempts to commit suicide 
• new or worse depression 
• new or worse anxiety 
• feeling very agitated or restless 
• panic attacks 

• trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
• new or worse irritability 
• acting aggressive, being angry, or violent 
• acting on dangerous impulses 
• an extreme increase in activity and talking (mania) 

• other unusual changes in behavior or mood
What else do I need to know about antidepressant medicines?

•

•

Never stop an antidepressant medicine without first talking to a healthcare provider. Stopping an
antidepressant medicine suddenly can cause other symptoms.

Antidepressants are medicines used to treat depression and other illnesses. It is important to discuss all the
risks of treating depression and also the risks of not treating it. Patients and their families or other caregivers should

Reference ID: 4556968


This is the text of the PDF page 
 discuss all treatment choices with the healthcare provider, not just the use of antidepressants.

• Antidepressant medicines have other side effects. Talk to the healthcare provider about the side effects of the
medicine prescribed for you or your family member. 
• Antidepressant medicines can interact with other medicines. Know all of the medicines that you or your family
member takes. Keep a list of all medicines to show the healthcare provider. Do not start new medicines without first
checking with your healthcare provider. 
• Not all antidepressant medicines prescribed for children are FDA approved for use in children. Talk to your
child’s healthcare provider for more information. 

What is ABILIFY?

• ABILIFY Oral Tablets, Orally-Disintegrating Tablets, and Oral Solution are prescription medicines used to
treat:
o Schizophrenia
o manic or mixed episodes that happen with bipolar I disorder
o major depressive disorder (MDD) when ABILIFY is used with antidepressant medicines
o irritability associated with autistic disorder
o Tourette’s disorder

• ABILIFY Injection is a prescription medicine used to treat:
o agitation associated with schizophrenia or bipolar mania
It is not known if ABILIFY is safe or effective in children:

• under 13 years of age with schizophrenia 
• under 10 years of age with bipolar I disorder 
• under 6 years of age with irritability associated with autistic disorder 
• under 6 years of age with Tourette’s disorder 

Do not take ABILIFY if you are allergic to aripiprazole or any of the ingredients in ABILIFY. See the end of this
Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in ABILIFY.

Before taking ABILIFY, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you have or
had:

•

•

diabetes or high blood sugar in you or your family; your healthcare provider should check your blood sugar before
you start ABILIFY and also during therapy.

seizures (convulsions).

• low or high blood pressure. 
• heart problems or stroke. 
• pregnancy or plans to become pregnant. It is not known if ABILIFY will harm your unborn baby.
o If you become pregnant while receiving ABILIFY, talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the
National Pregnancy Registry for Atypical Antipsychotics. You can register by calling 1-866-961-2388 or go to
http://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-programs/pregnancyregistry/. 
• breast-feeding or plans to breast-feed. ABILIFY passes into your breast milk. Talk to your healthcare provider about
the best way to feed your baby if you receive ABILIFY. 
• low white blood cell count. 

• phenylketonuria. ABILIFY DISCMELT Orally Disintegrating Tablets contain phenylalanine.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines that you take, including prescription and over-the-counter
medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements.
ABILIFY and other medicines may affect each other causing possible serious side effects. ABILIFY may affect the way
other medicines work, and other medicines may affect how ABILIFY works.
Your healthcare provider can tell you if it is safe to take ABILIFY with your other medicines. Do not start or stop any
medicines while taking ABILIFY without talking to your healthcare provider first. Know the medicines you take. Keep a list

Reference ID: 4556968


This is the text of the PDF page 
 of your medicines to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine.

How should I take ABILIFY?

• Take ABILIFY exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it. Do not change the dose or stop taking ABILIFY
yourself.

• ABILIFY can be taken with or without food. 
• ABILIFY tablets should be swallowed whole. 
• If you miss a dose of ABILIFY, take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for the next dose,
just skip the missed dose and take your next dose at the regular time. Do not take two doses of ABILIFY at the same
time. 
• If you have been prescribed ABILIFY DISCMELT, take it as follows:
o Do not open the blister until ready to take the DISCMELT tablet.
o To remove one DISCMELT tablet, open the package and peel back the foil on the blister to expose the tablet.
o Do not push the tablet through the foil because this could damage the tablet.
o Immediately upon opening the blister, using dry hands, remove the tablet and place the entire ABILIFY
DISCMELT Orally Disintegrating Tablet on the tongue.
o Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly in saliva. It is recommended that ABILIFY DISCMELT be taken without liquid.
However, if needed, it can be taken with liquid.
o Do not attempt to split the DISCMELT tablet. 
• If you take too much ABILIFY, call your healthcare provider or poison control center at 1-800-222-1222 right away, or
go to the nearest hospital emergency room. 

What should I avoid while taking ABILIFY?

•

•

Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how ABILIFY affects you.
ABILIFY may make you drowsy.

Avoid getting over-heated or dehydrated.
o Do not over-exercise.
o In hot weather, stay inside in a cool place if possible.
o Stay out of the sun. Do not wear too much or heavy clothing.
o Drink plenty of water.

What are the possible side effects of ABILIFY?
ABILIFY may cause serious side effects, including:

•

•

See “What is the most important information I should know about ABILIFY?”

Stroke in elderly people (cerebrovascular problems) that can lead to death

• Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have some or all of the
following symptoms: high fever, stiff muscles, confusion, sweating, changes in pulse, heart rate, and blood pressure.
These may be symptoms of a rare and serious condition that can lead to death. Call your healthcare provider right
away if you have any of these symptoms. 
• Uncontrolled body movements (tardive dyskinesia). ABILIFY may cause movements that you cannot control in
your face, tongue, or other body parts. Tardive dyskinesia may not go away, even if you stop receiving ABILIFY.
Tardive dyskinesia may also start after you stop receiving ABILIFY. 
• Problems with your metabolism such as:
 High blood sugar (hyperglycemia) and diabetes. Increases in blood sugar can happen in some people who
take ABILIFY. Extremely high blood sugar can lead to coma or death. If you have diabetes or risk factors for
diabetes (such as being overweight or a family history of diabetes), your healthcare provider should check your
blood sugar before you start ABILIFY and during your treatment.
Call your healthcare provider if you have any of these symptoms of high blood sugar while receiving
ABILIFY: 

Reference ID: 4556968


This is the text of the PDF page 
 o
o

 feel very thirsty
 need to urinate more than usual
 feel very hungry
 feel weak or tired
 feel sick to your stomach
 feel confused, or your breath smells fruity
Increased fat levels (cholesterol and triglycerides) in your blood.
Weight gain. You and your healthcare provider should check your weight regularly.

• Unusual urges. Some people taking ABILIFY have had unusual urges, such as gambling, binge eating or eating that
you cannot control (compulsive), compulsive shopping and sexual urges.
If you or your family members notice that you are having unusual urges or behaviors, talk to your healthcare provider. 
• Orthostatic hypotension (decreased blood pressure). Lightheadedness or fainting may happen when rising too
quickly from a sitting or lying position. 
• Falls. ABILIFY may make you sleepy or dizzy, may cause a decrease in your blood pressure when changing position
and can slow your thinking and motor skills which may lead to falls that can cause fractures or other injuries. 

• Low white blood cell count 
• Seizures (convulsions) 
• Problems with control of your body temperature especially when you exercise a lot or are in an area that is
very hot. It is important for you to drink water to avoid dehydration. See “What should I avoid while receiving
ABILIFY?” 

• Difficulty swallowing that can cause food or liquid to get into your lungs.
The most common side effects of ABILIFY in adults include:

• Nausea • dizziness 
• vomiting • anxiety 
• constipation • insomnia 
• headache • restlessness 

•

•

blurred vision
upper respiratory illness • inner sense of restlessness/need to
move (akathisia)

The most common side effects of ABILIFY in children include:

• feeling sleepy • insomnia 
• headache • nausea 
• vomiting • stuffy nose 

• fatigue • weight gain 
• increased or decreased appetite • uncontrolled movement such as
restlessness, tremor 
• increased saliva or drooling • muscle stiffness 

These are not all the possible side effects of ABILIFY.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

How should I store ABILIFY?

•

•

Store ABILIFY at room temperature, between 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C).

Opened bottles of ABILIFY Oral Solution can be used for up to 6 months after opening, but not beyond the expiration

Reference ID: 4556968


This is the text of the PDF page 
 date on the bottle.
Keep ABILIFY and all medicines out of the reach of children.

General information about the safe and effective use of ABILIFY
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide. Do not use ABILIFY for
a condition for which it was not prescribed. Do not give ABILIFY to other people, even if they have the same symptoms
you have. It may harm them. You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ABILIFY that was
written for healthcare professionals.

What are the ingredients in ABILIFY?
Active ingredient: aripiprazole
Inactive ingredients:
Tablets: cornstarch, hydroxypropyl cellulose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, and microcrystalline cellulose.
Colorants include ferric oxide (yellow or red) and FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake
ABILIFY DISCMELT Orally Disintegrating Tablets: acesulfame potassium, aspartame (which contains phenylalanine),
calcium silicate, croscarmellose sodium, crospovidone, crème de vanilla (natural and artificial flavors), magnesium
stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, silicon dioxide, tartaric acid, and xylitol. Colorants include ferric oxide (yellow or red)
and FD&C Blue No. 2 Aluminum Lake
ABILIFY Oral Solution: disodium edetate, fructose (200 mg per mL), glycerin, dl-lactic acid, methylparaben, propylene
glycol, propylparaben, sodium hydroxide, sucrose (400 mg per mL), and purified water. The oral solution is flavored with
natural orange cream and other natural flavors

For more information about ABILIFY go to www.abilify.com or call 1-800-438-6055.

Tablets manufactured by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Tokyo, 101-8535 Japan

Orally Disintegrating Tablets, Oral Solution, and Injection manufactured by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ 08543 USA

Distributed and marketed by Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc., Rockville, MD 20850 USA

ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company.

© Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Tokyo, 101-8535 Japan

This Medication Guide has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration

Reference ID: 4556968

Revised: 8/2019


